In this tutorial, we will add a special effect for the camera called camera shake.
We will have the camera shake whenever we receive any damage. Go to the vfx daddy.
Create a new blueprint class. In the search, enter camera shake.
We inherit from the MatineeCameraShake class. This out-of-the-box solution will allow us to tweak
this effect fairly quickly. Name the new asset BP_DamageCameraShake and open it.
We are interested in the settings that are in the details panel. The category is called oscillation.
Translated as vibration, or vibration. The first property that we will be interested in is called duration,
that is, the time of camera oscillation, and then we will be interested in the property of the camera oscillation settings
along its various axes. For a test, let's play this effect through a blueprint. Go to the player folder.
We open the controller. We will call this effect on Tick. The function that plays
Camera Shake is located in the camera manager. We get this object using a special getter.
We call the StartCameraShake function. We connect Tick to this node and in the ShakeClass settings specify the
asset that we just created. Click play. Nothing happens.
This is because we have all the settings at zero. Specify Duration 0.2 seconds, specify an amplitude of 10 for pitch.
Run it. The pitch of the camera starts to vibrate with an amplitude of 10 units. Let's check another parameter.
Frequency. Let's set the amplitude to 1. and set the frequency to, for example, 20.
That is, it changes the vibration frequency. Twenty is not very noticeable. Let's set some more extreme
value - 100. The camera is shaking more intensely now. Thus, playing with these
parameters, you can get a good effect. Let's set more sane values.
Let the amplitude be one. We replace the frequency with 10 and set the same values ​​for yaw.
We launch. Shake camera now looks more accurate. You can slightly increase the
frequency - set the frequency to 20. In general, the setting of these parameters can be provided to the designer.
We will not touch Roll, because it looks more aggressive, for example, if we set the
amplitude to 10 and some frequency. That looks a little strange in our situation.
Although for some mechanic, when the floor starts to shake, perhaps this is a good solution.
We will leave these parameters at zero. Create a new property in the health component class.
Change the category to vfx, use the TSubclassOf template.
The class that corresponds to camera shake in C ++ is called UCameraShakeBase.
Let's call the property CameraShake.
Let's add a forward declaration of the class.
For convenience, let's add a new function to the private section,
which will be responsible for playing the effect. Let's call it PlayCameraShake.
Go to the .cpp file. Let's add the header files that we need: pawn, controller
and also camera shake.
Let's create the body of the PlayCameraShake function.
We will call it in the OnTakeAnyDamage function when we receive any damage.
First, let's check if our character is alive or not. If it is dead, then we exit this function. Next, we get
Next, we get a pointer to pawn. Immediately we cast the pointer, which returns GetOwner to the APawn class.
The pointer to the controller is in the pawn, so there is no point in casting to the ACharacter class.
If the pointer is nullptr, then we also exit the function. If not, then we get a pointer to the controller.
To do this, we call the GetController template function. We pass APlayerController as the template argument.
If the given pointer is null, then we exit the function.
The second condition by which we exit the function: a pointer to PlayerCameraManager = nulltpr.
If everything is in order, then we call the StartCameraShake function, which is located
in the PlayerCameraManager. We just called this function with you in the blueprint.
We pass CameraShake as an argument, all other parameters can be left by default.
Launch the editor. Open the character class and install the CameraShake asset in the health component.
I did not save the nodes in the controller with the effect playing on Tick. Click play. We run into the sphere.
The camera starts shaking and we quickly died. Let's change the amount of damage the
red sphere deals. Set a small value: 0.5
Run in again, exit, run in, exit. The camera only shakes when we receive damage.
It will look more natural when we take point damage from other players.